# Air-HOLP: Adaptive Regularized Feature Screening for High Dimensional Data
This repository contains the code to implement the methods and reproduce results in the paper titled "Air-HOLP: Adaptive Regularized Feature Screening for High Dimensional Data".
A description of each file is given below. Download all files in the same location and start exploring the Air-HOLP method by running the "Real Data (Tomlins).R" file.  

**Important:** The R codes in this repository are designed to work on RStudio. Moreover, if you make any changes to the code, make sure to save it before running it.  
If you are not using RStudio, then please make sure that all the files are saved in the current working directory of R.  
Alternatively, you can set the working directory to be the location you save the files in (using the function setwd).  

Adaptive_iterative_regulariztion_functions.R:  
This file contains the function "AirHOLP" which implements the Air-HOLP method. It also contains the function "GrAirHOLP" which integrates the Air-HOLP algorithm into the Group HOLP method.

Real Data (Tomlins).R:  
This file applies the Air-HOLP, Ridge-HOLP, and SIS methods to the Tomlins-V2 prostate cancer data and produces the plots in section 5 of the paper.  
**Warning:** This file might take a few minutes to run depending on the speed of your device.  

Computational complexity of Air-HOLP.R:  
This file conducts the computational complexity comparison in section 6 of the paper between Air-HOLP, Ridge-HOLP, and Ridge-OLS.  
**Warning:** This file will take several minutes to run depending on the speed of your device.  
**Note:** The results will vary depending on the speed of your device. To achieve robust results, please avoid running other programs while the code is running.

Simulation Study (Results).R:  
This file conducts the compound symmetry simulation study in section 4 of the paper and stores the results in the files "Threshold results.csv" and "Probability results.csv".  
**Warning:** This file might take more than a day to run the simulations depending on the speed of your device.  
**Note:** The files "Threshold results.csv" and "Probability results.csv" in this repository are generated by this file.  

Simulation Study (Results 2).R:  
This file conducts the spatial correlation simulation study in section 4 of the paper and stores the results in the files "Threshold results 2.csv" and "Probability results 2.csv".  
**Warning:** This file might take more than a day to run the simulations depending on the speed of your device.  
**Note:** The files "Threshold results 2.csv" and "Probability results 2.csv" in this repository are generated by this file.  

Simulation Study (Plots).R:  
This file reads the results from the files "Threshold results.csv" and "Probability results.csv" and then produces the compound symmetry plots.  

Simulation Study (Plots 2).R:  
This file reads the results from the files "Threshold results 2.csv" and "Probability results 2.csv" and then produces the spatial correlation plots.  

Threshold results.csv:  
This file contains the compound symmetry Sure Screening Threshold results of Air-HOLP, Ridge-HOLP, and SIS.  
It also shows the selected penalty parameter by Air-HOLP for each sample.  

Threshold results 2.csv:  
This file contains the spatial correlation Sure Screening Threshold results of Air-HOLP, Ridge-HOLP, and SIS.  
It also shows the selected penalty parameter by Air-HOLP for each sample.  

Probability results.csv:  
This file contains the compound symmetry Sure Screening Probability results of Air-HOLP, Ridge-HOLP, and SIS.  
It also shows the mean selected penalty parameter by Air-HOLP for each simulation setting.  

Probability results 2.csv:  
This file contains the spatial correlation Sure Screening Probability results of Air-HOLP, Ridge-HOLP, and SIS.  
It also shows the mean selected penalty parameter by Air-HOLP for each simulation setting.  

Time complexity comparison.csv:  
This file contains the results produced by the "Computational complexity of Air-HOLP.R" file.  
The execution times are presented in milliseconds.  

Tomlins-V2.csv:  
This file contains the prostate cancer data used in section 5 of the paper.
